.
MALE NARRATOR:
Previously on Debris...
BRYAN: When was the last time
you saw your father?
In the morgue.
Hed already taken his own life.
I havent really gotten
over that.
Hes alive.
He wrote the whole playbook.
BRYAN:
This is gonna affect Finola.
Youve got his eyes.
WOMAN:
These men took my father.
FINOLA:
You gotta give me something.
FERRIS:
Did you do what I asked?
I cant trust Ferris.
And you cant trust Maddox.
BRYAN: This man saved my life.
Finola, hey. I will get
what I need out of him.
(power surges)
They found your father.
(woman panting)
(panting continues)
Hey!
Help me!
At the warehouse.
(whimpers)
(switch clicks)
Youre making it worse!
(grunts)
Landos dead. Shes gone.
Shes too far developed.
♪ (theme)
MADDOX:
Good morning, Finola.
All right.
As you are all well aware,
we have identified
that George Jones is alive.
We think
he is being held somewhere
in an area called
the Channeled Scablands
in Eastern Washington State.
Thankfully, with memories
extracted from Anson Ash,
weve narrowed that down.
This highway marker here
is near an area called
Twin Lakes.
Now, this memory comes up a lot.
We are confident that INFLUX
has an installation here,
and what were looking for
is within a five-mile radius
of this location.
Satellites and flybys
havent picked up anything?
No, but there is definitely
something there.
Were thinking subterranean?
MADDOX: Could be, or camouflage.
From the memory images that
we were able to pull up here,
you can see something that
we think is a research facility.
Our main priority is
to recover George.
This is a surgical
in-and-out mission.
Once you have George
in a secure location,
I will send an additional team
to sweep the premises
for intel, computers,
any additional Debris we find.
And do we know
when those memories are from?
A month? A week?
No, we dont.
This is all we have
to work with for now.
I wish we had more.
Have a seat.
I dont want you to use Finola
on this mission, tactically.
Finolas capable.
I trust her instincts.
Theres no way she would ever
not be one of the first people
through the door
to retrieve her father.
Youre gonna have
to find a way.
This isnt a retrieval
for you, Bryan.
George Jones doesnt
come out of this alive.
Yeah. Go for it.
FERRIS (on phone):
Theres a change of plan,
at least on our end.
I just sent Phelps
a new directive.
Okay. Yeah. What is it?
We have operatives in place
to stop your convoy
after youve exfiltrated
your father.
I dont understand.
FERRIS: We cant let the
Americans take possession
of him.
There will be a plane waiting
to bring you both back home.
The Americans arent
just gonna let us take him.
Finola, whatever you
and Phelps need to do,
George needs
to be on that plane.
BRYAN: INFLUX has learned
everything they can from
George.
Hes not a risk to us now.
We can learn things from him.
This is what were doing.
Bryan, I know how hard this is.
I know how hard this is to ask.
Does the team know?
Sha knows.
Hes all you need.
BRYAN:
There must be another way.
Do you remember
that night in Marjah?
When I told you to go into
the north entrance of that
compound?
And you did it without
any questions asked,
even though you knew that was
the most dangerous entrance?
You remember that?
Keep her out of the building.
And you should take
some comfort in knowing
that you can tell her
that her dad was killed
in a crossfire.
Trust me.
All right.
Ill stand by.
Ill report back.
George needs to be in London.
Its the safest place
for you to be as well.
And youre needed here
on multiple fronts.
What does that mean?
Dee Dee was arrested
a few days ago for
drug possession.
I shut it down, but its clear
she needs you right now.
FINOLA:
She didnt tell me that.
FERRIS: You know
theres nothing more Id like
than to see our family
reunited.
You know how much
I care about you.
Its the right thing to do.
Just follow Phelps lead,
and hell bring you home.
(door closes)
Ferris told me
theres gonna be a team
waiting to ambush the convoy.
To take my father and I
back to London.
That doesnt matter
if hes dead.
What?
What do you mean?
Maddox doesnt want your father
coming out of this raid alive.
What are you talking about?
Why?
I dont know.
But he was adamant.
Its an order.
Sha knows too.
There has to be something
more than Ferris
can offer to shed light on this.
What could your father know?
You keep asking me that.
Why?
Because there has to be answers.
Just because you say there
arent doesnt make it so.
-Im trying to get clarity.
-No.
No, you dont need me
to make sense of this for you.
You need me to give you
some sort of hope
that Maddox, your mentor,
is doing this for reasons
that are just.
I know what Maddox means to you,
but this is my father,
and Maddox ordering you
to kill him is not normal.
We wouldnt know any of this
if we werent talking.
If it wasnt for us wanting
to know what we are involved in,
you would be following
that order.
Think about that. Please.
I cant guarantee your fathers
safety in the United States,
so one way or another,
were gonna need
to get him on that plane.
Yeah.
And then what?
For you?
After Maddox finds out
you didnt follow the order?
We need to figure this out.
Ferris sent Phelps to help get
my father to the plane.
MAN (on radio):
Tac Team Two
to Tac Team One, over.
Go Sha.
MAN: Target zone ETA three-zero
minutes, over.
Roger that.
What are we gonna do about Sha?
I dont know.
Bryan!
Did you see her?
Whered she go?
Disappeared into thin air.
FINOLA: She was here.
FINOLA: What is it?
BRYAN:
Some sort of disturbance.
(woman gasps)
Please dont hurt me.
Its okay.
Were not gonna hurt you.
were here to help you.
Gomez, can you get us
some water?
Her neck...
FINOLA: I think the Debris has
been implanted under her skin.
Please get it out.
.
FINOLA: Seems to have the same
properties as the Nacho we
discovered in New York.
Its working through
micro-vibration.
Making her atoms move so fast
that shes invisible?
Thats my guess,
but more importantly,
having it inside her has meant
to give her control over it.
I mean, it must be some sort
of lab out here.
GOMEZ:
Well, she still doesnt
remember who she is.
Okay. Do you wanna give us
a second with that?
Thank you. Thanks, guys.
Hi. My name is Finola.
This is my partner, Bryan.
Can you tell me anything about
the people that did this to you?
They were doing experiments
on me.
There were others.
Did you see this man
when you were in there?
Yeah, he was there.
He was always there.
Him? Did you see him?
No. Maybe.
Theyre always people
being held captive.
Do you remember any landmarks
from where you escaped?
There was a door.
We ran out of it into the brush,
and there was water.
-Im sorry.
-FINOLA: Its okay.
Im going to leave you
with Agent Gomez, okay?
And hes gonna take you
somewhere
where they can help you.
Okay? Youre safe.
Thank you.
I dont know.
What dont you know?
I dont know where
the ball of light is.
I never asked you that.
You didnt?
No.
You know, in Pennsylvania,
one of the clones
of Eric King,
I was interviewing him.
Remember he asked me
about a ball of light?
And now shes just
asked me about that.
They were both affected
by Debris.
PHELPS:
Medevac is 15 minutes out.
Thank you.
(thunder rumbles)
Hello.
Im forwarding you
the latest satellite package.
Theyre still out searching
for George.
The plane is standing by
at the airstrip.
Very good.
Ill check in when I have it.
It was such a beautiful walk.
You should have come.
You wouldve loved it.
All right, lets go.
You have to fix your face.
FINOLA: This is it.
She said it was near water.
There was an old pumping plant
here connected to the lake.
SHA:
Theres something down there.
Looks like underground tunnels.
Were on top of it.
Here it is.
Maddox say she doesnt go in.
Stick with me.
Youll get your opportunity.
(radio, indistinct)
(radio continues, indistinct)
Its my fathers handwriting.
Hes here.
.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Its okay.
Im here to help you, okay?
I need you to get up. Okay?
Okay.
BRYAN:
Bowen, Get them up
to the staging area.
(grunts)
-You all right?
-Its just a bruise.
We need to find my father.
MAN:
Clear.
Clear!
(man whimpering)
Dad.
-Step aside.
-No.
I got it.
FINOLA:
Im not gonna let Sha kill
my father.
Its okay.
Put it down.
Lets get your father
out of here.
-Now.
-Go.
(alarm beeping)
-MAN: Get back, get back!
-Go!
Get em out! Lets go!
-Now!
-Go!
Come on, Phelps,
lets get out of here.
I got you.
Finola!
Come on.
Watch yourself.
Were good.
Were clear.
Wheres Bowen?
-Hey, breathe, stay alive.
-Bowen is gone.
He probably took the people that
we released to the staging area.
-No. Bryan!
-What?
Bowens gone.
So?
Bowen is gone,
which means he didnt
even see my father.
He cant tell Maddox
about what he didnt see.
Hes the only one left.
Just tell Maddox that
my father wasnt even here.
We need to get
the surveillance.
(phone rings)
Bryan.
Bryan, can you hear me?
-George wasnt there.
-What?
The Intel was bad.
George was not there.
Bowens alive.
Sha and Phelps are dead.
Finolas been injured.
Im taking her to get
treated right now.
MADDOX: What do you mean
he wasnt there? What--
What the hell happened?
Youre gonna have to deal
with that, not me.
Ill call you after,
I gotta go.
(phone beeps)
Where do we have to go
to follow Ferris plan.
.
GEORGE:
How did you find me?
One of the men, Anson Ash.
I found you from his memories.
Fantastic.
(phone rings)
-Yeah, Trisha.
-Its Dee Dee.
Youve been leaving me
messages, but I cant
use my phone.
I think theyre listening
to my calls and reading
my texts.
-Who?
-Your boss, Ferris.
Thats why I mentioned
Michelles country house
on the phone yesterday.
She was literally standing
in front of me.
She made me call you.
What are you talking about?
She said that you were
in danger,
that I had to get you
to come home because
youre in trouble.
What the hell is going on,
Finola? Are you okay?
Yeah. None of what
shes saying is true.
Why are they doing this?
-Fi, Im scared.
-I know.
Dee Dee listen to me, okay?
Im going to need for you
to stay with Trisha until I can
figure this out.
Okay.
Pack some things,
and leave now,
leave your phone behind,
because they can track it.
Go now.
Okay. I love you.
I love you.
How is she?
Whats happening?
Pull over. Now.
Now, you need to tell me
right now,
how are you alive?
From what I understand,
they took me from the morgue,
and I was reanimated.
They can only do it
to a person once.
I had no idea that the Debris
had-- had these capabilities.
They went in through eye.
Finola.
How is this possible?
Hey, just--
Hang on, Finola.
Hes not going anywhere
because they are liars, Bryan.
They are liars, all of them.
Whatd your sister say?
That Ferris manipulated her
to call me.
Why? To get him home?
To get me home?
He is not going anywhere.
BRYAN:
How much can you remember,
George?
I think they damaged
my hippocampus
and thats the bridge between
long and short-term memory,
interference,
consolidating and retrieving
information.
But I remember whats important.
Can you think of any reason
why Craig Maddox would want
you dead?
He and his government took
Orbital away from me.
I should think
I would want him dead.
But I dont. I dont.
He wants me dead?
Ill have to think about that.
My death, your death, his death.
I wouldnt lose sleep over it.
Everyone on this Earth
is going to die.
Rather irrelevant, really.
See...
when they were holding me,
I learned things
about this organization,
Influx--
the scale, their ambition.
They know as much about
the alien technology
as Orbital does.
Maybe more.
They are actively seeking
a very dangerous piece
of Debris.
Its game-changing.
Game-changing.
And if they do, well, just
refer to my previous statement
about our deaths
being irrelevant.
They were forcing me
to build this device,
a device that would track
this piece.
It emits waves in a frequency
that even Dr. Laghari
couldnt comprehend.
Where is he by the way?
Dr. Laghari suffered a stroke.
Hes in a facility in Idaho.
You visited him.
Dont you remember?
Thats too bad.
I could have used him
right now.
I mean, for all we know,
the U.S. has already found it.
Russians or the Chinese or...
But even if they did,
they wouldnt recognize
the power it holds.
They wouldnt understand.
Thats one of the reasons
why Influx brought me back
to life.
They believed that I was
the only one that could
build something to find it.
And did you finish it for them?
I think I did enough work
to allow them
to finish it themselves.
And theyre close.
I know. Im sure.
What are they planning
on doing with it?
What does it do?
I dont remember.
.
Is this okay for you, Dad?
Yes. Its fine.
Okay.
I was...
I was really worried
about you.
Im fine.
I mean, Im okay.
I know you made the...
...decision
to leave us alone.
And I just--
I dont know...
...how you could have
done that to us.
But I dont know how you
could have done that...
...to me.
Your mother was no longer here
to make sense of the world
for me.
I was always drifting away
from my original purpose.
I really
understand how important
your work is to you.
I just wished there was...
...room in there for me.
Thats it.
Im sorry. I wasnt the father
you needed, Finola.
But now...
this isnt about you
or me or our relationship.
This is about
your childrens children.
This is about making rice
in-- in fields
that should be barren.
This is about regrowing
forests in days
rather than decades,
making the world harmonious
and having no wants.
This is about restoring balance
to a world thats on fire.
Thats what this is about.
And the only ones who
could usher these things in
are the beings that--
that created this Debris--
that-- the beings
that we may never--
They gave us the gift
of their technology,
and its going to take
all of that technology
to save mankind.
Yeah. Well--
-I, um...
-Finola.
Maybe I made mistakes.
I viewed the world
in a particular way,
and now its all out of control.
Do you understand?
You are so important to me,
and now I have a chance
to set things right
with you
and with what Ive done.
I need you to get
Lagharis files from Orbital
so I can build the scanner.
Im ashamed to admit that
I dont quite remember the math.
I got a guy we can see tomorrow
in Oregon.
Hell have all the tools
your your dad needs.
Thats great.
How do we handle Ferris?
We cant Maddox.
But we can use her.
What do you mean?
Well, you heard
what my dad said.
Its not going to be easy.
Were gonna need
a lot of resources.
I think I know how to play this.
All right.
This should be good for a start.
Those are just some
of the things Ill need to--
to build the scanner.
Well get on this
first thing tomorrow.
Do you remember an Orbital
scientist named Garcia
from the early days?
Yes.
Hell have everything
that you need.
Um...
Are you going to tell him
about me?
Do we have a choice?
I wonder, should we leave now?
-I have--
-George.
I have that I need in my head
and as soon as we get
the equipment, I can--
George, no.
Its okay.
Were going to be on the road
first thing.
No. Im not safe here.
George, youre gonna be safe
as long as Im here.
Im gonna be right outside.
(door closes)
(phone rings)
Are you okay?
FINOLA:
Yeah, nothing serious.
FERRIS:
Maddox told me
George wasnt there.
Bryan only told him
my father wasnt there.
You have your father?
FINOLA: Yes, I do.
May I trouble you
for some aluminum foil?
Did he tell you how
hes still alive?
FINOLA: That is not important.
Why does Maddox want
my father dead?
What are you talking about?
You dont know.
FERRIS:
Of course, I didnt know.
Yeah. Well...
he does.
And youre not getting him,
either.
I know what you did.
I know that you tried
to use Dee Dee to draw
me back to London
and you knew
that once I saw him...
how hard it would be for me
to bring him back to you.
I realized the moment that we
touched down in London
that I will be pulled
off working on anything
involving him.
FERRIS:
Okay. Yes.
But if you cant see
that I did this for
your own good.
FINOLA: There was piece of
Debris that he told us about.
He says its the reason
why they took him.
He says that we need to find it.
Elaborate.
FINOLA:
I will let you know
what you need to know
when I learn it.
But what I need from you
is to obtain all
of the Laghari files,
because if I tried to access
them, it would throw up
a red flag.
He needs them.
FERRIS:
Ill say what I can do.
MAN: No sign of Garcia--
the Debris again. Over.
(beep)
MAN:
Approaching the Debris.
(beep)
WOMAN: You broke up.
can you repeat?
(beep)
MAN: Garcia, I cannot read you.
I cannot see you.
(beep)
(radio static)
MAN:
Oh, my God. Oh, my God!